<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1 plus MathML 2.0//EN" "http://www.w3.org/Math/DTD/mathml2/xhtml-math11-f.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="GENERATOR" content="LyX 2.1.3" />
<meta http-equiv="Content-type" content="text/html;charset=UTF-8" />
<title>LyX Document</title>
<style type='text/css'>
/* Layout-provided Styles */
dfn.lyxnoun {
  font-variant: small-caps;
}
div.standard {
margin-bottom: 2ex;
}
div.plain_layout {
text-align: left;

}
ol.lyxlist {
list-style-type: none;
}
li.labeling_item {
text-indent: -5em;
margin-left: 5em;
}
span.lyxlist {
margin-right: 1em;
}
span.flex_url {
font-family: monospace;
}


</style>
</head>
<body>
<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-1' /><dfn class='lyxnoun'><span style='font-size:large;'>elijah r. jensen</span></dfn>
<span style='font-size:large;'><br />

<em>Department of Physics
<br />

University of Louisville </em></span></div>

<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-2' />Email: ejensen141@gmail.com</div>

<div class="standard" style='text-align: center;'><a id='magicparlabel-3' />Website: <span class="flex_url">ejensen141.github.io</span></div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-8' /><b>Education</b>
<br />

<hr />

</div>
<div style='height:13pt'></div>


<div style='height:1em'></div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-10' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2015</span>
 <dfn class='lyxnoun'>Univeristy of Lousiville
<br />

</dfn><em>Masters of Science in Physics (Cum Laude)</em></li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2013</span>
 <dfn class='lyxnoun'>Univeristy of Vermont
<br />

</dfn><em>Electrical Engineering Masters Program Study </em></li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2012</span>
<dfn class='lyxnoun'> Austin Peay State Univeristy</dfn>
<br />

<em>Bachelor of Science in Physics (Magna Cum Laude) </em></li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-13' /><b>Academic Positions</b>
<br />

<hr />

</div>


<div style='height:1em'></div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-15' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2013-2015</span>
 Graduate Teaching Assistant, University of Louisville (Physics)</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2012-2013</span>
 Graduate Teaching Assistant, University of Vermont (ECE)</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2009-2012</span>
 Tutor, Austin Peay Accademic Support Center </li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-18' /><b>Research Interests</b>
<br />

<hr />

</div>


<div style='height:1em'></div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-20' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Optics</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Electromagnetic Theory, Electronics/Microelectronics</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Mechanical Engineering (Device Construction) </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Computational Science (Modeling of Electrical Properties) </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Materials Science (Thin Films and Graphene)</li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-25' /><b>Research Projects: </b>
<br />

<hr />

</div>


<div style='height:1em'></div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-27' />Current:</div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-28' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 High Dynamic Range Seismic Sensing using custom designed 32bit DAQ.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Design of custom IR imaging devices.</li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-30' />2015</div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-31' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 High Dynamic Range Instrument Design.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Optical Detection of Surface Waves.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 High Dynamic Range Seismic Sensing using custom designed 32bit DAQ.</li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-34' />2014 </div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-35' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Design of 24 bit Analog to Digital Capture device.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 &ldquo;Visualizing&rdquo; Seismic Waves via Audio Conversion.</li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-37' />2013</div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-38' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Computational modeling of micro and nano-scale antenna designs (THz and IR sensing applications).</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Computational modeling of EM waves.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2012</span>
 </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Building better electronic systems for Regenerative braking in electric vehicles.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Design of effcient, safe, and reliable Transformer-less Power supplies.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Electric Motor controller design (MOSFET switching). </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 PCB manufacturing with desktop CNC milling machines. (new computer code and processes)</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2011</span>
 </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Dynamo design for Regenerative braking in electric vehicles.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Electric Car Research with FSAE team. (team leader) </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Expanding previous reproach in solar power regulation technology Fall 2011</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Solar Panel Power Regulation circuits. This uses some of the same ideas from the Regenerative systems. These systems use a complex circuit to ensure that the batteries accept charging even under low power conditions.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Developed firmware for ATMEL microcontroller projects.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Used microcontroller to drive Robotics hardware with video processing input. </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2010</span>
 </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Computational modeling of Zinc Nano-wire </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Used nwchem and Guassian to model a Zinc nano-wire for possible use in nano photo-voltaics</li>
</ol>


<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-60' /><b>Papers/Articles </b>
<br />

<hr />

</div>


<div style='height:1em'></div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-62' /><b><i>Fractional Intensity Modulation Of Diffusely Scattered Light</i></b> </div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-63' />John Kielkopf, Elijah Jensen, Univ. of Louisville (United States); Frank O. Clark, Bradley Noyes, Wopeco Research (USA)</div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-64' />Published in SPIE Proceedings Volume 9608: Infrared Remote Sensing and Instrumentation XXIII September 2015 </div>


<div style='height:10pt'></div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-127' /><b><span style='font-style:oblique;'>Remote Optical Detection Of Ground Vibrations</span></b> </div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-125' />Robert M. Shroll, Benjamin St. Peter, Steven Richtsmeier, Bridget Tannian, Spectral Sciences, Inc. (United States); Elijah Jensen, John Kielkopf, Univ. of Louisville (United States); Wellesley E. Pereira, Air Force Research Lab. (United States) </div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-263' />Published in Proceedings Volume 9608: Infrared Remote Sensing and Instrumentation XXIII September 2015 </div>


<div style='height:20pt'></div>

<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-66' /><b>Talks</b>
<br />

<hr />

</div>


<div style='height:1em'></div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-68' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2012</span>
 Lithography, Double Patterning (how to make a nano trace) (UVM)</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2012</span>
 Design of 80v, 19 HP motor controller for EV (TAAPT) </li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2012</span>
 Design of Safe and Reliable Transformerless Power Supply (TAAPT)</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2012</span>
 PCB production in small fabrication lab (TAAPT)</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2011</span>
 Computational Analysis of Complex AC Circuits.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2011</span>
 Computational Analysis of dynamo generator.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2011</span>
 Solar Power Power Regulator using Switching Technology</li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-75' /><b>Honors and Awards</b>
<br />

<hr />

</div>


<div style='height:1em'></div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-77' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2015</span>
 Recipient of Iyad Khair Award for Excellence in Physics</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2013</span>
 Dean’s List of Distinguished Students (UVM)</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2011</span>
 Inducted into Pi Mu Epsilon Math Society</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2010</span>
 Inducted into Phi Kappa Phi, Honorary Society</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2008</span>
 Dean’s List of Distinguished Students, all semesters.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2010</span>
 Recipient of three Space Grants</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2011</span>
 NSF MaPs Scholarship</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>2010</span>
 NSF MaPs Scholarship</li>
</ol>


<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-90' /><b>Skills</b>
<br />

<hr />

</div>


<div style='height:1em'></div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-92' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>Languages:</span>
 C, C++, FORTRAN, JavaScript, Python, PHP, HTML, BASIC</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>Programs:</span>
 MATLAB, Mathematica, Minitab, Igor Pro, National Instruments Lab-View, Pro-tools, Logic, Reason, Arduino IDE, Microsoft Office, Unix/Linux, LaTeX, NwChem, Gaussian, Octave, Spice, Mac-Spice, xmgrace, HTML/CSS, Qt GUI Programming, AVR Microcontroller C programming. Final Cut Pro, Motion, Avid, Apple Software/Hardware, Eagle CAD, OrCAD, Autodesk Inventor, AutoCAD, Google SketchUp, Pro Engineer, Roland MODELA, G code, M code, RML code. GEDA suite, AppleWorks, iWork, Gimp, MAYA, Adobe Photoshop, Blender, gEDA Suite.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>Equipment:</span>
 Agilent Oscilloscopes, Function Generators, Power Supplies, Multimeters. HP Oscilloscopes, Function Generators, Power Supplies, Multimeters. Breadboarding, SMD soldering, PCB production, CO2 Laser Equipment, Laser Diodes, AVR microcontrollers, Physics Laboratory Equipment, LABVIEW, Vernier, Lathe (Manual and CNC), 3D printer, Milling (CNC and Manual), Ultrahigh vacuum systems, Repair of any equipment listed above.</li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-95' /><b>Service</b>
<br />

<hr />

</div>


<div style='height:1em'></div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-97' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Dept. Representative to the Graduate Student Union (University of Louisville) 2015-2016</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Dept. Representative to the Graduate Student Council (University of Louisville) 2015-2016</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Serve on Texas Instruments Expert Advisory Panel from 2015</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 Tutored Physics, Math, Biology, and Chemistry from 2009 - 2012</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 I play Violin, Piano, and Guitar, and have performed for many concerts and charity events.</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>•</span>
 I have taught music both privately and for the Creative School for the Arts at Austin Peay. (The Creative School for the Arts is a Federally funded after school program for young people to experience and learn music)</li>
</ol>
<div class="standard"><a id='magicparlabel-103' /><b>Affiliations</b>
<br />

<hr />

</div>


<div style='height:1em'></div>

<ol class='lyxlist'><a id='magicparlabel-105' /><li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>&nbsp;</span>
 IEEE</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>&nbsp;</span>
 American Physical Society</li>
<li class="labeling_item"><span class='lyxlist'>&nbsp;</span>
 Sigma Pi Sigma</li>
</ol>
</body>
</html>
